README.md, before:

# leetcode-cli

![Rust](https://github.com/clearloop/leetcode-cli/workflows/leetcode-cli/badge.svg)
[![crate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/leetcode-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/leetcode-cli)
[![doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/current-docs-brightgreen.svg)](https://docs.rs/leetcode-cli/)
[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/leetcode-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/leetcode-cli)
[![telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/telegram-blue?logo=telegram)](https://t.me/+U_5si6PhWykxZTI1)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/leetcode-cli.svg)](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

## Installing

```sh
# Required dependencies:
#
#  gcc
#  libssl-dev
#  libdbus-1-dev
#  libsqlite3-dev

cargo install leetcode-cli
```

<details>
<summary>Shell completions</summary>

For Bash and Zsh (by default picks up `$SHELL` from environment)

```sh
eval "$(leetcode completions)"
```

Copy the line above to `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`

You may also obtain specific shell configuration using.

```sh
leetcode completions fish
```

</details>

## Usage

**Make sure you have logged in to `leetcode.com` with `Firefox`**. See [Cookies](#cookies) for why you need to do this first.

```sh
leetcode 0.4.0
May the Code be with You 👻

USAGE:
    leetcode [FLAGS] [SUBCOMMAND]

FLAGS:
    -d, --debug      debug mode
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

SUBCOMMANDS:
    data    Manage Cache [aliases: d]
    edit    Edit question by id [aliases: e]
    exec    Submit solution [aliases: x]
    list    List problems [aliases: l]
    pick    Pick a problem [aliases: p]
    stat    Show simple chart about submissions [aliases: s]
    test    Edit question by id [aliases: t]
    help    Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
```

## Example

To configure leetcode-cli, create a file at `~/.leetcode/leetcode.toml`):

```toml
[code]
editor = 'emacs'
# Optional parameter
editor_args = ['-nw']
# Optional environment variables (ex. [ "XDG_DATA_HOME=...", "XDG_CONFIG_HOME=...", "XDG_STATE_HOME=..." ])
editor_envs = []
lang = 'rust'
edit_code_marker = false
start_marker = ""
end_marker = ""
# if include problem description
comment_problem_desc = false
# comment syntax
comment_leading = ""
test = true

[cookies]
csrf = '<your-leetcode-csrf-token>'
session = '<your-leetcode-session-key>'

[storage]
cache = 'Problems'
code = 'code'
root = '~/.leetcode'
scripts = 'scripts'
```

<details>
  <summary>Configuration Explanation</summary>

```toml
[code]
editor = 'emacs'
# Optional parameter
editor_args = ['-nw']
# Optional environment variables (ex. [ "XDG_DATA_HOME=...", "XDG_CONFIG_HOME=...", "XDG_STATE_HOME=..." ])
editor_envs = []
lang = 'rust'
edit_code_marker = true
start_marker = "start_marker"
end_marker = "end_marker"
# if include problem description
comment_problem_desc = true
# comment syntax
comment_leading = "//"
test = true

[cookies]
csrf = '<your-leetcode-csrf-token>'
session = '<your-leetcode-session-key>'

[storage]
cache = 'Problems'
code = 'code'
root = '~/.leetcode'
scripts = 'scripts'
```

If we change the configuration as shown previously, we will get the following code after `leetcode edit 15`.

```rust
// Category: algorithms
// Level: Medium
// Percent: 32.90331%

// Given an integer array nums, return all the triplets [nums[i], nums[j], nums[k]] such that i != j, i != k, and j != k, and nums[i] + nums[j] + nums[k] == 0.
//
// Notice that the solution set must not contain duplicate triplets.
//
//  
// Example 1:
//
// Input: nums = [-1,0,1,2,-1,-4]
// Output: [[-1,-1,2],[-1,0,1]]
// Explanation:
// nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = (-1) + 0 + 1 = 0.
// nums[1] + nums[2] + nums[4] = 0 + 1 + (-1) = 0.
// nums[0] + nums[3] + nums[4] = (-1) + 2 + (-1) = 0.
// The distinct triplets are [-1,0,1] and [-1,-1,2].
// Notice that the order of the output and the order of the triplets does not matter.
//
//
// Example 2:
//
// Input: nums = [0,1,1]
// Output: []
// Explanation: The only possible triplet does not sum up to 0.
//
//
// Example 3:
//
// Input: nums = [0,0,0]
// Output: [[0,0,0]]
// Explanation: The only possible triplet sums up to 0.
//
//
//  
// Constraints:
//
//
// 3 <= nums.length <= 3000
// -10⁵ <= nums[i] <= 10⁵
//

// start_marker
impl Solution {
pub fn three_sum(nums: Vec<i32>) -> Vec<Vec<i32>> {

    }

}
// end_marker

```

</details>

<br>

Some linting tools/lsps will throw errors unless the necessary libraries are imported. leetcode-cli can generate this boilerplate automatically if the `inject_before` key is set. Similarly, if you want to test out your code locally, you can automate that with `inject_after`. For c++ this might look something like:

```toml
[code]
inject_before = ["#include<bits/stdc++.h>", "using namespace std;"]
inject_after = ["int main() {\n    Solution solution;\n\n}"]
```

#### 1. <kbd>pick</kbd>

```sh
leetcode pick 1
```

```sh
leetcode pick --name "Two Sum"
```

```sh
[1] Two Sum is on the run...


Given an array of integers, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to a specific target.

You may assume that each input would have exactly one solution, and you may not use the same element twice.

--------------------------------------------------

Example:


Given nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 9,

Because nums[0] + nums[1] = 2 + 7 = 9,
return [0, 1].
```

#### 2. <kbd>edit</kbd>

```sh
leetcode edit 1
```

```rust
# struct Solution;
impl Solution {
    pub fn two_sum(nums: Vec<i32>, target: i32) -> Vec<i32> {
        use std::collections::HashMap;
        let mut m: HashMap<i32, i32> = HashMap::new();

        for (i, e) in nums.iter().enumerate() {
            if let Some(v) = m.get(&(target - e)) {
                return vec![*v, i as i32];
            }

            m.insert(*e, i as i32).unwrap_or_default();
        }

        return vec![];
    }
}
```

#### 3. <kbd>test</kbd>

```sh
leetcode test 1
```

```sh

  Accepted       Runtime: 0 ms

  Your input:    [2,7,11,15], 9
  Output:        [0,1]
  Expected:      [0,1]

```

#### 4. <kbd>exec</kbd>

```sh
leetcode exec 1
```

```sh

  Success

  Runtime: 0 ms, faster than 100% of Rustonline submissions for Two Sum.

  Memory Usage: 2.4 MB, less than 100% of Rustonline submissions for Two Sum.


```

## Cookies

The cookie plugin of leetcode-cli can work on OSX and [Linux][#1]. **If you are on a different platform, there are problems with caching the cookies**,
you can manually input your LeetCode Cookies to the configuration file.

```toml
[cookies]
csrf = "..."
session = "..."
```

For Example, using Firefox (after logging in to LeetCode):

#### Step 1

Open Firefox, press F12, and click `Storage` tab.

#### Step 2

Expand `Cookies` tab on the left and select https://leetcode.com.

#### Step 2

Copy `Value` from `LEETCODE_SESSION` and `csrftoken` to `session` and `csrf` in your configuration file, respectively:

```toml
[cookies]
csrf = "${csrftoken}"
session = "${LEETCODE_SESSION}"
```

## Programmable

If you want to filter LeetCode questions using custom Python scripts, add the following to your the configuration file:

```toml
[storage]
scripts = "scripts"
```

Then write the script:

```python
# ~/.leetcode/scripts/plan1.py
import json;

def plan(sps, stags):
    ##
    # `print` in python is supported,
    # if you want to know the data structures of these two args,
    # just print them
    ##
    problems = json.loads(sps)
    tags = json.loads(stags)

    ret = []
    tm = {}
    for tag in tags:
        tm[tag["tag"]] = tag["refs"];

    for i in problems:
        if i["level"] == 1 and str(i["id"]) in tm["linked-list"]:
            ret.append(str(i["id"]))

    # return is `List[string]`
    return ret
```

Then run `list` with the filter that you just wrote:

```sh
leetcode list -p plan1
```

That's it! Enjoy!

## Contributions

Feel free to add your names and emails in the `authors` field of `Cargo.toml` !

## LICENSE

MIT

[pr]: https://github.com/clearloop/leetcode-cli/pulls
[#1]: https://github.com/clearloop/leetcode-cli/issues/1

Commit message:

fix: shell detection message always outputed when generating completion (#131)
* fix: shell detection message always outputed when generating completion

* Remove shell detection message

* Update README

README.md, after:

# leetcode-cli

![Rust](https://github.com/clearloop/leetcode-cli/workflows/leetcode-cli/badge.svg)
[![crate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/leetcode-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/leetcode-cli)
[![doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/current-docs-brightgreen.svg)](https://docs.rs/leetcode-cli/)
[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/leetcode-cli.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/leetcode-cli)
[![telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/telegram-blue?logo=telegram)](https://t.me/+U_5si6PhWykxZTI1)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/leetcode-cli.svg)](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

## Installing

```sh
# Required dependencies:
#
#  gcc
#  libssl-dev
#  libdbus-1-dev
#  libsqlite3-dev

cargo install leetcode-cli
```

<details>
<summary>Shell completions</summary>

For Bash and Zsh (by default picks up `$SHELL` from environment)

```sh
eval "$(leetcode completions)"
```

Copy the line above to `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`

You may also obtain specific shell configuration using.

```sh
leetcode completions fish
```

If no argument is provided, the shell is inferred from the `SHELL` environment variable.

</details>

## Usage

**Make sure you have logged in to `leetcode.com` with `Firefox`**. See [Cookies](#cookies) for why you need to do this first.

```sh
leetcode 0.4.0
May the Code be with You 👻

USAGE:
    leetcode [FLAGS] [SUBCOMMAND]

FLAGS:
    -d, --debug      debug mode
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

SUBCOMMANDS:
    data    Manage Cache [aliases: d]
    edit    Edit question by id [aliases: e]
    exec    Submit solution [aliases: x]
    list    List problems [aliases: l]
    pick    Pick a problem [aliases: p]
    stat    Show simple chart about submissions [aliases: s]
    test    Edit question by id [aliases: t]
    help    Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
```

## Example

To configure leetcode-cli, create a file at `~/.leetcode/leetcode.toml`):

```toml
[code]
editor = 'emacs'
# Optional parameter
editor_args = ['-nw']
# Optional environment variables (ex. [ "XDG_DATA_HOME=...", "XDG_CONFIG_HOME=...", "XDG_STATE_HOME=..." ])
editor_envs = []
lang = 'rust'
edit_code_marker = false
start_marker = ""
end_marker = ""
# if include problem description
comment_problem_desc = false
# comment syntax
comment_leading = ""
test = true

[cookies]
csrf = '<your-leetcode-csrf-token>'
session = '<your-leetcode-session-key>'

[storage]
cache = 'Problems'
code = 'code'
root = '~/.leetcode'
scripts = 'scripts'
```

<details>
  <summary>Configuration Explanation</summary>

```toml
[code]
editor = 'emacs'
# Optional parameter
editor_args = ['-nw']
# Optional environment variables (ex. [ "XDG_DATA_HOME=...", "XDG_CONFIG_HOME=...", "XDG_STATE_HOME=..." ])
editor_envs = []
lang = 'rust'
edit_code_marker = true
start_marker = "start_marker"
end_marker = "end_marker"
# if include problem description
comment_problem_desc = true
# comment syntax
comment_leading = "//"
test = true

[cookies]
csrf = '<your-leetcode-csrf-token>'
session = '<your-leetcode-session-key>'

[storage]
cache = 'Problems'
code = 'code'
root = '~/.leetcode'
scripts = 'scripts'
```

If we change the configuration as shown previously, we will get the following code after `leetcode edit 15`.

```rust
// Category: algorithms
// Level: Medium
// Percent: 32.90331%

// Given an integer array nums, return all the triplets [nums[i], nums[j], nums[k]] such that i != j, i != k, and j != k, and nums[i] + nums[j] + nums[k] == 0.
//
// Notice that the solution set must not contain duplicate triplets.
//
//  
// Example 1:
//
// Input: nums = [-1,0,1,2,-1,-4]
// Output: [[-1,-1,2],[-1,0,1]]
// Explanation:
// nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = (-1) + 0 + 1 = 0.
// nums[1] + nums[2] + nums[4] = 0 + 1 + (-1) = 0.
// nums[0] + nums[3] + nums[4] = (-1) + 2 + (-1) = 0.
// The distinct triplets are [-1,0,1] and [-1,-1,2].
// Notice that the order of the output and the order of the triplets does not matter.
//
//
// Example 2:
//
// Input: nums = [0,1,1]
// Output: []
// Explanation: The only possible triplet does not sum up to 0.
//
//
// Example 3:
//
// Input: nums = [0,0,0]
// Output: [[0,0,0]]
// Explanation: The only possible triplet sums up to 0.
//
//
//  
// Constraints:
//
//
// 3 <= nums.length <= 3000
// -10⁵ <= nums[i] <= 10⁵
//

// start_marker
impl Solution {
pub fn three_sum(nums: Vec<i32>) -> Vec<Vec<i32>> {

    }

}
// end_marker

```

</details>

<br>

Some linting tools/lsps will throw errors unless the necessary libraries are imported. leetcode-cli can generate this boilerplate automatically if the `inject_before` key is set. Similarly, if you want to test out your code locally, you can automate that with `inject_after`. For c++ this might look something like:

```toml
[code]
inject_before = ["#include<bits/stdc++.h>", "using namespace std;"]
inject_after = ["int main() {\n    Solution solution;\n\n}"]
```

#### 1. <kbd>pick</kbd>

```sh
leetcode pick 1
```

```sh
leetcode pick --name "Two Sum"
```

```sh
[1] Two Sum is on the run...


Given an array of integers, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to a specific target.

You may assume that each input would have exactly one solution, and you may not use the same element twice.

--------------------------------------------------

Example:


Given nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 9,

Because nums[0] + nums[1] = 2 + 7 = 9,
return [0, 1].
```

#### 2. <kbd>edit</kbd>

```sh
leetcode edit 1
```

```rust
# struct Solution;
impl Solution {
    pub fn two_sum(nums: Vec<i32>, target: i32) -> Vec<i32> {
        use std::collections::HashMap;
        let mut m: HashMap<i32, i32> = HashMap::new();

        for (i, e) in nums.iter().enumerate() {
            if let Some(v) = m.get(&(target - e)) {
                return vec![*v, i as i32];
            }

            m.insert(*e, i as i32).unwrap_or_default();
        }

        return vec![];
    }
}
```

#### 3. <kbd>test</kbd>

```sh
leetcode test 1
```

```sh

  Accepted       Runtime: 0 ms

  Your input:    [2,7,11,15], 9
  Output:        [0,1]
  Expected:      [0,1]

```

#### 4. <kbd>exec</kbd>

```sh
leetcode exec 1
```

```sh

  Success

  Runtime: 0 ms, faster than 100% of Rustonline submissions for Two Sum.

  Memory Usage: 2.4 MB, less than 100% of Rustonline submissions for Two Sum.


```

## Cookies

The cookie plugin of leetcode-cli can work on OSX and [Linux][#1]. **If you are on a different platform, there are problems with caching the cookies**,
you can manually input your LeetCode Cookies to the configuration file.

```toml
[cookies]
csrf = "..."
session = "..."
```

For Example, using Firefox (after logging in to LeetCode):

#### Step 1

Open Firefox, press F12, and click `Storage` tab.

#### Step 2

Expand `Cookies` tab on the left and select https://leetcode.com.

#### Step 2

Copy `Value` from `LEETCODE_SESSION` and `csrftoken` to `session` and `csrf` in your configuration file, respectively:

```toml
[cookies]
csrf = "${csrftoken}"
session = "${LEETCODE_SESSION}"
```

## Programmable

If you want to filter LeetCode questions using custom Python scripts, add the following to your the configuration file:

```toml
[storage]
scripts = "scripts"
```

Then write the script:

```python
# ~/.leetcode/scripts/plan1.py
import json;

def plan(sps, stags):
    ##
    # `print` in python is supported,
    # if you want to know the data structures of these two args,
    # just print them
    ##
    problems = json.loads(sps)
    tags = json.loads(stags)

    ret = []
    tm = {}
    for tag in tags:
        tm[tag["tag"]] = tag["refs"];

    for i in problems:
        if i["level"] == 1 and str(i["id"]) in tm["linked-list"]:
            ret.append(str(i["id"]))

    # return is `List[string]`
    return ret
```

Then run `list` with the filter that you just wrote:

```sh
leetcode list -p plan1
```

That's it! Enjoy!

## Contributions

Feel free to add your names and emails in the `authors` field of `Cargo.toml` !

## LICENSE

MIT

[pr]: https://github.com/clearloop/leetcode-cli/pulls
[#1]: https://github.com/clearloop/leetcode-cli/issues/1
